---
title: "Introduction"
description: "Quick overview and explanation of this section."
category: "owo-ui"
---

## Why is this even a thing?
Well, I had originally used `owo-lib`'s `owo-ui` to make one of my mods, [Control-UI-Refactored](https://github.com/Type-32/Control-UI-Refactored). During the time of
development, I had slowly discovered that the original documentation, [Wisp Forest Docs](https://docs.wispforest.io), doesn't have a full and thorough
documentation of their `owo-ui`'s capabilities and features. Especially of their lack-of-descriptions-and-examples for
the **Code-Driven** method and **Data-Driven** method of making a UI using `owo-ui`.

## So, what exactly is this?
Seeing the issues I've described at the front, I've decided to write an even thorough documentation for `owo-ui` and its
components, with descriptions of their features in full, both **Code-Driven** and **Data-Driven**, and examples that
would be helpful in an actual use case. These docs aren't perfect, of course, but I deem it would help a lot of new
developers who is planning on using the `owo-lib` mod to make a Minecraft UI using `owo-ui` by letting them avoid common
or uncommon mistakes. These _"mistakes"_ are concluded via my own experiences as well as asking other and probing through
multiple GitHub repositories that has high-quality `owo-ui` code which achieved astonishing effects.

## Reminders
Also, huge reminder: sample code with `.java` are usually code-driven samples, while `.xml` are usually data-driven samples.
For more on using Code-Driven or Data-Driven UI programming in your mod, please check out [wispforest.io](wispforest.io/docs).

***

::callout{color="amber" icon='i-heroicons-exclamation-triangle'}
The owo-ui documentation is still being written and not quite complete yet. In places where an article here is still missing, you can always refer to the JavaDoc present throughout the library - it explains most things in detail
::

## Introduction

owo-ui provides a rich set of components that can be used to build interactive and customizable user interfaces. By leveraging these components and their various properties, you can create dynamic and visually appealing UIs using either the code-driven or data-driven approach.

For more detailed information on each component and their usage, please refer to the individual component documentation.
